README.md, before:

## Getting Started

- Install `Node v18.19.0`

- `npm install`

- Create a `.env.local` at root level

### SQLite:
- Add `APP_DATABASE_PROVIDER=sqlite` in `.env.local`
- `npm run migrate-deploy:sqlite`
- `npm run dev`

### Postgres:

- Create a `.env` file inside `prisma-postgres` folder
- Add `POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL=""` and `POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING=""` with the URL of your postgres database
- `npm run migrate-deploy:postgres`
- `npm run dev:postgres`

## Updating DB schema migration steps
The app is using Prisma with two different providers: SQLite and Postgres. 

There are two different folders for each `prisma_postgres` and `prisma_sqlite`. Whenever you run an individual prisma command to have to specify which schema to use with `--schema=./prisma_postgres/schema.prisma` or `--schema=./prisma_sqlite/schema.prisma`

### Steps for Schema Changes
1. Make the schema change in both folders.
2. `npm run create-migration:postgres` and `npm run create-migration:sqlite`
3. Modify the generated migrations
    - Remove SQL instructions to drop the dynamic tables
    - Modify the rest of the instructions to try to avoid unnecessary table drops
4. `npm run migrate-deploy:postgres` or `npm run migrate-deploy:postgres`
5. `npm run dev` or `npm run dev:postgres`

If the Migration deploy fails, a failed migration record will be generated in the `_prisma_migrations` table. Re-running the deploy command will fail even if the migration error is fixed. In order to resolve this there are two options:
1. Remove the record from the table and re-run the deploy command
2. Run the following command which will mark the broken record as rolled-back and allow us to insert a new record with the same name. Don't forget to replace the name of the migration folder and the database provider accordingly
`npx prisma migrate resolve --rolled-back ${MIGRATION_FOLDER_NAME} --schema=./prisma_${postgres or sqlite}/schema.prisma`

### Steps for authenticating

1. Create a Clerk organization and navigate to the API Keys page
2. Add the NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY and CLERK_SECRET_KEY variables to the .env.local file
3. `npm run dev`
4. [Download/Install ngrok]
5. Open command line, run `ngrok http 3000` and copy URL
6. Navigate to Clerk Webhooks page, add the `<ngrok_url>/api/webhook/clerk/user`, with user filter
7. Access http://localhost:3000/ and log in

Commit message:

Add local env type logic for public access to UI and API (#178)
* before adding authorization components and logic check if the env type is local

* build fix

* update public routes according to env type

* make newuser endpoint call public

* add default env for local env

* PR suggestions

* update readme

README.md, after:

## Getting Started

- Install `Node v18.19.0`

- `npm install`

- Create a `.env.local` at root level

### SQLite:
- Add `APP_DATABASE_PROVIDER=sqlite` in `.env.local`
- `npm run migrate-deploy:sqlite`
- `npm run dev`

### Postgres:

- Create a `.env` file inside `prisma-postgres` folder
- Add `POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL=""` and `POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING=""` with the URL of your postgres database
- `npm run migrate-deploy:postgres`
- `npm run dev:postgres`

## Updating DB schema migration steps
The app is using Prisma with two different providers: SQLite and Postgres. 

There are two different folders for each `prisma_postgres` and `prisma_sqlite`. Whenever you run an individual prisma command to have to specify which schema to use with `--schema=./prisma_postgres/schema.prisma` or `--schema=./prisma_sqlite/schema.prisma`

### Steps for Schema Changes
1. Make the schema change in both folders.
2. `npm run create-migration:postgres` and `npm run create-migration:sqlite`
3. Modify the generated migrations
    - Remove SQL instructions to drop the dynamic tables
    - Modify the rest of the instructions to try to avoid unnecessary table drops
4. `npm run migrate-deploy:postgres` or `npm run migrate-deploy:postgres`
5. `npm run dev` or `npm run dev:postgres`

If the Migration deploy fails, a failed migration record will be generated in the `_prisma_migrations` table. Re-running the deploy command will fail even if the migration error is fixed. In order to resolve this there are two options:
1. Remove the record from the table and re-run the deploy command
2. Run the following command which will mark the broken record as rolled-back and allow us to insert a new record with the same name. Don't forget to replace the name of the migration folder and the database provider accordingly
`npx prisma migrate resolve --rolled-back ${MIGRATION_FOLDER_NAME} --schema=./prisma_${postgres or sqlite}/schema.prisma`

### Running locally without authentication
1. To run locally without the need to authenticate add ENV_TYPE=local to the .env.local file
2. Add the NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY and CLERK_SECRET_KEY variables from the .env.example file 

### Steps for authenticating with Clerk

Make sure ENV_TYPE is not local

1. Create a Clerk organization and navigate to the API Keys page
2. Add the NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY and CLERK_SECRET_KEY variables to the .env.local file
3. `npm run dev`
4. [Download/Install ngrok]
5. Open command line, run `ngrok http 3000` and copy URL
6. Navigate to Clerk Webhooks page, add the `<ngrok_url>/api/webhook/clerk/user`, with user filter
7. Access http://localhost:3000/ and log in
